2018-10-23 20:05:13	~japaric	alright, let's start this meeting
2018-10-23 20:05:20	~japaric	we'll go over the milestone issues as usual
2018-10-23 20:05:40	~japaric	this week we have a new Rust release; the 2018 edition is due in 6 weeks
2018-10-23 20:06:05	~japaric	issue 1, book intro
2018-10-23 20:06:26	~japaric	is https://github.com/rust-embedded/book/pull/40 waiting for review?
2018-10-23 20:07:16	@adamgreig	yes
2018-10-23 20:07:16	~japaric	I'm going to mark it as waiting-on-review since there are no comments after the last commit
2018-10-23 20:07:28	@therealprof	There're still outstanding changes to be made I think.
2018-10-23 20:08:08	@adamgreig	I think their recent commit addresess all the comments on that thread?
2018-10-23 20:08:10	@therealprof	I can recheck later.
2018-10-23 20:08:17	~japaric	therealprof: thanks
2018-10-23 20:08:30	~japaric	I think that's all for issue 1
2018-10-23 20:08:56	~japaric	issue 2, getting started / blinky section
2018-10-23 20:09:20	~japaric	I need to comment / answer on https://github.com/rust-embedded/book/issues/46
2018-10-23 20:10:04	~japaric	was semihosting covered, or is that still pending?
2018-10-23 20:10:40	~japaric	seems like it hasn't been covered from a look at https://rust-embedded.github.io/book
2018-10-23 20:11:01	~japaric	I can look into that
2018-10-23 20:11:40	~japaric	ok, moving to issue 3, collections
2018-10-23 20:12:33	~japaric	I'll put up some notes on &'static mut T and singletons for memory managements
2018-10-23 20:12:40	~japaric	management**
2018-10-23 20:13:29	~japaric	(though the second topic may be more appropriate for the nomicon)
2018-10-23 20:13:39	~japaric	ok, next issue 4 concurrency -- adamgreig any news?
2018-10-23 20:13:59	~japaric	I see that PR #49 landed
2018-10-23 20:13:59	@adamgreig	it's merged
2018-10-23 20:14:38	@adamgreig	unless there's additional things to cover or changes requested I think that's good for now?
2018-10-23 20:15:28	~japaric	yep, looks good to me from a quick glance
2018-10-23 20:16:00	~japaric	I'm currently working on cortex-m-rtfm 0.4.0 and I hope to get a beta version out shortly after 1.31-beta is out
2018-10-23 20:16:04	@adamgreig	it could conceivably / one day have more info about rtfm
2018-10-23 20:16:05	@adamgreig	ah cool
2018-10-23 20:16:19	@adamgreig	yes i think once rtfm is working on beta again we could expand the rtfm section of that chapter
2018-10-23 20:16:33	@adamgreig	but likewise not the end of the world if we didn't, it already has pointers to rtfm etc
2018-10-23 20:17:00	~japaric	yeah, I can write a short section on rtfm; rtfm v0.4 will have its own book / doc so a link is also OK
2018-10-23 20:17:09	@adamgreig	+1
2018-10-23 20:17:16	@therealprof	+1
2018-10-23 20:17:17	~japaric	adamgreig: thanks for working on this
2018-10-23 20:17:31	~japaric	and everyone else who reviewed / commented
2018-10-23 20:17:59	~japaric	next up: issue 5 - HAL any news jamesmunns therealprof ?
2018-10-23 20:18:01	@korken89	Awesome
2018-10-23 20:18:19	@jamesmunns	japaric: no news this week, hoping to work on it this week though (fingers crossed)
2018-10-23 20:18:42	@jamesmunns	Will plan on having an outline in the issue. I know a couple people wanted to contribute
2018-10-23 20:19:07	~japaric	jamesmunns: that'd be great to have, thanks
2018-10-23 20:19:53	@therealprof	Hm, I was just checking why my name was voiced. :-D
2018-10-23 20:20:42	~japaric	therealprof: I recall that you and thenewwazoo commented about helping out with the HAL stuff last week (may be misremembering, though)
2018-10-23 20:21:31	~japaric	ok, moving on: issue 6 - type state / static guarantees
2018-10-23 20:21:31	@therealprof	Might be. Luckily nobody noted it so I can't be held accountable. :-D
2018-10-23 20:22:20	@therealprof	#35 was merged
2018-10-23 20:22:34	~japaric	I see that #35 landed; jamesmunns any other outstanding work on this chapter?
2018-10-23 20:22:38	@jamesmunns	Right now we need volunteers for other static guarantees
2018-10-23 20:22:47	@jamesmunns	I only had ideas for the type state stuff
2018-10-23 20:23:07	@jamesmunns	If someone wants to brain dump some notes, I might be able to write more, but typestate is the main thing I planned to cover
2018-10-23 20:23:57	~japaric	the singleton and memory management stuff I mentioned is related; we can discuss that further once I put up some notes
2018-10-23 20:24:32	@jamesmunns	I thought I had some singleton notes somewhere already in the peripherals chapter
2018-10-23 20:24:43	@jamesmunns	you might want to see if that covers anything you had in mind already
2018-10-23 20:24:43	~japaric	but I think type state and configuration was the main point of this chapter
2018-10-23 20:24:55	@jamesmunns	https://rust-embedded.github.io/book/peripherals/singletons.html
2018-10-23 20:24:57	~japaric	jamesmunns: I'll check that out
2018-10-23 20:26:21	~japaric	next: issue 7 - tips for C/C++ programmers -- adamgreig any news?
2018-10-23 20:26:48	@adamgreig	still WIP on my end, I'm hoping to get at least the first go up for review asap so people can start adding on to it
2018-10-23 20:27:46	@adamgreig	should be able to cover most of what's in the thread atm though
2018-10-23 20:27:55	~japaric	adamgreig: nice, thanks for the update
2018-10-23 20:28:17	@korken89	I hope I will be of more use soon to help there
2018-10-23 20:29:05	@adamgreig	+1, yea the sooner i can put a first pr up the better really
2018-10-23 20:29:11	@adamgreig	seems a good section for a bunch of misc tips
2018-10-23 20:29:45	~japaric	ok, next issue, 8: C / Rust interop / integration
2018-10-23 20:29:51	@adamgreig	#51 landed
2018-10-23 20:30:18	@adamgreig	we have content for the whole chapter now, though I haven't had a chance to see what else we might need if anything
2018-10-23 20:30:51	@adamgreig	there's room to flesh out some of the examples I think?
2018-10-23 20:31:45	@adamgreig	I guess what 8 needs next is someone to think about what other topics to cover and/or what to expand upon
2018-10-23 20:32:04	@adamgreig	I can do that after dealing with 7 but if anyone else would like to then of course please go ahead
2018-10-23 20:32:46	@adamgreig	(there's also https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/238 and https://github.com/rust-lang/libc/issues/375 related issues)
2018-10-23 20:32:54	@adamgreig	but not sure they're really blockers on the book itself
2018-10-23 20:33:06	@adamgreig	( jamesmunns ^ ?)
2018-10-23 20:33:44	~japaric	those issues are on my todo list; haven't had a check them yet -- will comment this week
2018-10-23 20:34:07	@jamesmunns	adamgreig: im open to suggestions
2018-10-23 20:34:30	@jamesmunns	previous topics were things like integration to build systems, other rtos's or ecosystems (freertos, mbed, cmake, make, etc)
2018-10-23 20:34:39	@jamesmunns	that was all we came up with previously
2018-10-23 20:34:57	@jamesmunns	unfortunately its been a while since I've worked with those, so I would mostly be experimenting from scratch
2018-10-23 20:35:11	@adamgreig	a lot of those are going to be tough to write, very detailed, and will become outdated quickly though
2018-10-23 20:35:16	@adamgreig	and/or not be embedded-rust specific
2018-10-23 20:35:48	@adamgreig	freertos/chibios/mbed integration would be interesting but I think in every case needs to be "use this crate (which doesn't exist yet)"
2018-10-23 20:35:59	@adamgreig	idk, it would be extremely _useful_ content to have
2018-10-23 20:36:00	~japaric	hmm, perhaps we could link to external projects that do C / Rust interop as examples
2018-10-23 20:36:02	@adamgreig	just hard to write and maintain
2018-10-23 20:36:10	@adamgreig	yea
2018-10-23 20:36:14	~japaric	there's a freertos binding around, right?
2018-10-23 20:36:22	@adamgreig	iirc it's very out of date
2018-10-23 20:36:24	~japaric	(haven't checked its status since long time though)
2018-10-23 20:36:29	~japaric	ahh, that's a shame
2018-10-23 20:37:00	@adamgreig	hmm, last update 9 months ago, not that outdated
2018-10-23 20:37:15	@adamgreig	it might come back to life one day :p
2018-10-23 20:37:43	~japaric	well, it sounds like we should make separate issues about collecting, or developing, further on this topic (build system integration, rtos bindings, etc) but I don't think they should be blockers on the book
2018-10-23 20:37:50	@adamgreig	yea, I agree
2018-10-23 20:37:58	@adamgreig	those things would be nice to have one day but it seems like they don't really exist yet
2018-10-23 20:38:04	@adamgreig	so putting them in the book right now seems premature
2018-10-23 20:38:20	@adamgreig	the existing stuff on how the actual C/rust integration works is good
2018-10-23 20:39:01	~japaric	I agree. It might be best to have a single issue about the resources we want and link to that from the book. We can then use that issue to coordinate further work and link to other issues
2018-10-23 20:39:45	@jamesmunns	:+1:
2018-10-23 20:39:53	@adamgreig	sounds good
2018-10-23 20:40:28	@adamgreig	do you think that's an issue in /book or /wg ?
2018-10-23 20:41:04	@jamesmunns	book IMO
2018-10-23 20:41:23	nagisa	I’m working with freertos at the moment.
2018-10-23 20:41:30	nagisa	and I was thinking of writing a binding as well
2018-10-23 20:42:08	nagisa	but I don’t think it is gonna be plausible to write a binding that exposes all of the flexibility in freertos.
2018-10-23 20:42:19	nagisa	a convenient one that is
2018-10-23 20:42:29	~japaric	jamesmunns, adamgreig: could I get one of you to open a book issue and link it from the book?
2018-10-23 20:42:35	@adamgreig	yea. the most success I've had with this sort of thing is writing a rust static lib which just contains normal code, and letting the c part do all the rtos work
2018-10-23 20:42:48	@adamgreig	chibios api is almost entirely macros, so it really doesn't play well
2018-10-23 20:43:08	@adamgreig	japaric: sure, will do
2018-10-23 20:43:14	~japaric	adamgreig: thanks
2018-10-23 20:43:43	@adamgreig	perhaps one for make system integration and a second for RTOS integration?
2018-10-23 20:44:05	~japaric	next up: issue 9, book outline. jamesmunns did we get comments on freezing chapter names / links?
2018-10-23 20:44:14	~japaric	adamgreig: sgtm
2018-10-23 20:44:28	@jamesmunns	japaric: a few comments from thejpster
2018-10-23 20:44:44	@jamesmunns	I think it was only around one, let me pull up the issue
2018-10-23 20:45:26	@jamesmunns	ah right
2018-10-23 20:45:28	~japaric	https://github.com/rust-embedded/book/issues/52
2018-10-23 20:45:32	@jamesmunns	ty
2018-10-23 20:45:42	@jamesmunns	does mdbook do canonical urls?
2018-10-23 20:46:04	~japaric	https://rust-embedded.github.io/book/static-guarantees/static-guarantees (w/o .html) seems to work
2018-10-23 20:46:13	@jamesmunns	I need to look in to that. gutenberg does a nice `name/index.html` thing, so you can just link to `name/`
2018-10-23 20:46:17	@jamesmunns	oh, cool
2018-10-23 20:46:27	 *	thejpster is afk
2018-10-23 20:46:39	~japaric	but yeah, not including the file type sgtm
2018-10-23 20:46:43	@jamesmunns	Then it is mostly
2018-10-23 20:47:02	@jamesmunns	"Dynamic Data Structures"/"Flexible Memory Management"/"Collections"
2018-10-23 20:47:19	@jamesmunns	generally - for any memory that is heap[-ish]
2018-10-23 20:47:42	~japaric	as it is, collections seems appropriate
2018-10-23 20:48:07	~japaric	but we may add stuff about memory management so may be best to wait a bit on that one
2018-10-23 20:48:25	@jamesmunns	k, snooze for another week then?
2018-10-23 20:49:24	~japaric	I think we can go ahead or starting voting on the other chapter names
2018-10-23 20:49:46	~japaric	also https://rust-embedded.github.io/book/portability/portability.html seems redundant, can we make it just /book/portability ?
2018-10-23 20:49:46	@jamesmunns	I think all the others are pretty non-controversial
2018-10-23 20:50:10	@jamesmunns	I will have to look at that, `https://rust-embedded.github.io/book/portability/` doesnt work
2018-10-23 20:50:42	~japaric	jamesmunns: please do; let's return to this next week
2018-10-23 20:50:51	~japaric	10 mins left
2018-10-23 20:51:38	~japaric	issue 10, the other book -- ryankurte is not around so let's skip that
2018-10-23 20:51:50	~japaric	unless someone wants to report work on this issue?
2018-10-23 20:51:53	@therealprof	There's been some work on that.
2018-10-23 20:52:13	@therealprof	ryankurte provided something a bit earlier today.
2018-10-23 20:52:20	~japaric	quick comment on issue 11, showcase: I'll look at this week
2018-10-23 20:52:36	@therealprof	It's not complete but if he's okay with that I'll provide some words about DAPlink
2018-10-23 20:52:56	~japaric	quick comment on issue 12, tests in rust-lang/rust: I'll review the PR soon-ish
2018-10-23 20:53:02	@therealprof	japaric: +1
2018-10-23 20:53:15	@adamgreig	looks like tests are now passing for the 12 issue
2018-10-23 20:54:02	~japaric	therealprof: if there's some PR on the new book could you add it to the dropbox paper?
2018-10-23 20:54:16	@therealprof	We still have problems with mdbook. Shall we continue patching and unpatching?
2018-10-23 20:54:24	@therealprof	japaric: sure
2018-10-23 20:54:37	@adamgreig	ugh yea the mdbook thing is affecting discovery too, which is not yet fixed to use 0.2.1
2018-10-23 20:54:41	~japaric	I saw some PR about switching to an older version of mdbook?
2018-10-23 20:54:58	@adamgreig	mdbook 0.2.2 is out, our ci script tries to use it by default, but no packages exist for it (?) so the script fails
2018-10-23 20:55:04	@adamgreig	hardcoding it to 0.2.1 resolves the issue for now
2018-10-23 20:55:12	@adamgreig	(I don't understand why there are no packages for 0.2.2)
2018-10-23 20:55:17	~japaric	ah ok
2018-10-23 20:55:24	@jamesmunns	Quick request before the end of the meeting: I'd like to work on svd2rust a bit more, and maybe clean up some PRs. May I either be deputized on the tools team, or added as a bors-reviewer for that project?
2018-10-23 20:55:25	~japaric	sticking to v0.2.1 seems fine to me
2018-10-23 20:55:43	@adamgreig	we need to swap discovery to 0.2.1 so its ci stops breaking for pending PRs too then
2018-10-23 20:55:45	@adamgreig	i'll open a pr to do so
2018-10-23 20:55:53	~japaric	adamgreig: +1
2018-10-23 20:55:59	@jamesmunns	have we opened an issue upstream to get the binaries published?
2018-10-23 20:56:19	@adamgreig	not afaik
2018-10-23 20:57:01	~japaric	jamesmunns: I can give you bors permissions for svd2rust -- therealprof any objection?
2018-10-23 20:57:19	@therealprof	japaric: Works for me.
2018-10-23 20:57:29	~japaric	on svd2rust, I want to get a release out that includes the interrupt attribute stuff
2018-10-23 20:57:37	@jamesmunns	\o/
2018-10-23 20:57:39	@adamgreig	right, I wanted to mention this
2018-10-23 20:57:41	~japaric	it's required for rtfm v0.4.x
2018-10-23 20:57:43	@adamgreig	we therefore also need a c-m-rt release
2018-10-23 20:57:50	~japaric	adamgreig: that too, yes
2018-10-23 20:58:05	@adamgreig	it seems like ramfunc and new r0 PRs are quite blocked
2018-10-23 20:58:09	@adamgreig	so we could just cut it now
2018-10-23 20:58:26	@adamgreig	if there's a fix for the #entry span error reporting thing we could include first that would be nice, but I don't know about it
2018-10-23 20:58:32	~japaric	seems fine to me, ramfunc is backward compatible to add
2018-10-23 20:58:36	@jamesmunns	adamgreig: +1 +1 +1
2018-10-23 20:58:37	~japaric	IDK about the r0 PR
2018-10-23 20:58:44	@adamgreig	sorry I mean your smaller init functions
2018-10-23 20:58:47	@adamgreig	the asm ones
2018-10-23 20:59:04	~japaric	ahh, that's fine to omit
2018-10-23 20:59:12	@adamgreig	I think both PRs need more discussion
2018-10-23 20:59:18	~japaric	yes
2018-10-23 20:59:21	@adamgreig	so ok, let's cut a new c-m-rt as-is
2018-10-23 20:59:32	@therealprof	\o/
2018-10-23 20:59:37	~japaric	adamgreig: +1 from me
2018-10-23 20:59:42	@adamgreig	want me to do a pr?
2018-10-23 20:59:50	~japaric	adamgreig: yes, please
2018-10-23 20:59:55	@jamesmunns	I have to run, feel free to @ me if you need anything, thanks everyone!
2018-10-23 20:59:59	@adamgreig	will do
2018-10-23 20:59:59	~japaric	the new release also includes stack-sizes support
2018-10-23 21:00:01	@adamgreig	seeya jamesmunns
2018-10-23 21:00:05	~japaric	jamesmunns: o/
2018-10-23 21:00:14	~japaric	will also include**
2018-10-23 21:00:17	@therealprof	Who can push to crates.io? Just japric?
2018-10-23 21:00:21	@therealprof	*japaric
2018-10-23 21:00:23	@adamgreig	anyone on the cortex-m team
2018-10-23 21:00:23	~japaric	anyone on the team
2018-10-23 21:00:32	@therealprof	Oh, cool.
2018-10-23 21:00:54	~japaric	but you need to make a PR to bump the version number and add the changelog so new releases are reviewed
2018-10-23 21:01:06	@therealprof	Sure, just curious.
2018-10-23 21:01:31	@adamgreig	if I can sneak in one other thing, the voting majority pr is on 12/24 approvals
2018-10-23 21:01:40	@adamgreig	either I can approve it too or japaric can tie break it, or we can wait for another +1
2018-10-23 21:02:11	@therealprof	adamgreig: +1
2018-10-23 21:03:04	~japaric	adamgreig: I'll do the casting vote thing
2018-10-23 21:03:08	@adamgreig	thanks
2018-10-23 21:03:33	~japaric	the proposal has been out for several weeks and all concerns were resolved so I think it's fine to land
2018-10-23 21:03:47	@therealprof	\o/
2018-10-23 21:03:52	~japaric	ok, that concludes our meeting. Thanks everyone for attending! See you next week