# Embedded Working Group Meeting Notes

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's meeting: 2019-10-29

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#rust-embedded:matrix.org

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* therealprof
* korken89
* japaric
* adamgreig
* TimSmall
* @charles:chronicembetterment.org
* nickray

## Reminders

None this week!

# Agenda

* Last Week's Actions
    * No news regarding focus projects, try again next week
* Should we have a reference HAL implementation (see https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/issues/156)
    * Discussion is split whether it's useful to have just an abstract HAL impl (for qemu use) or a real hardware one
* What to do with the TriState PR - shall we just merge it? (https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/pull/157)
    * No opinions voiced
* Who's going to RustFest Barcelona?
    * @therealprof
* Who's going to Meeting Embedded?
    * @thejpster is doing a talk about the nRF9160
* Any other upcoming events?
    * [FOSDEM 2020](https://fosdem.org/2020/) 1&2 Feb Brussels - free to attend ~8000 attendees(!) [CfPs](https://fosdem.org/2020/news/2019-10-01-accepted-developer-rooms/) are open until ~mid Nov (close date depends on room). Possible rooms of interest include:
        * Rust (double number of slots vs. previous years)
        * Embedded, Mobile and Automotive
        * IoT
        * LLVM
        * RiscV
* Docs improvement suggestions by @nickray:
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/docs/issues/18
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/docs/issues/19
    * <crickets/>
* Randomizing symbol names vs. reproducible builds (@jschievink):
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-rt/pull/205
        * Waiting for @jschievink to implement the trampoline approach
        * Meeting participants in favour of getting rid of the randomizing hack
* PSA from @japaric, new PR to fix Mutex impl: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/388

## To be put on next weeks agenda

* Foundational crates push to 1.0
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/383
* Mutex Trait (@korken89)
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/377

## Action Items

* [ ] @therealprof write an RFC for changing the embedded-hal trait inclusion mechanics 


## Last Week's Agenda

* Info about the Rust All Hands
    * Date and time still not finalized
    * No hard limit but unless discussions are needed should probably limit to 3 WG members
    * Travel grants are a possibility
    * Agenda bashing ticket here: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/381
* Mutex Trait
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/377
    * Discussion still in progress, no korken89 in the meeting to discuss
* Next blog planned for Oct 31
    * Submit additions here: https://github.com/rust-embedded/blog/blob/master/content/2019-10-31-newsletter-20.md
* MSRV guidance
    * Addition to cargo to specify MSRV was just accepted: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2495
    * Tracking issue for implementation: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65262
    * Could add some guidance to https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/blob/master/ops/msrv.md
    * WG tracking issue: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/382
* Digital::v2 guidance
    * Maybe could be a focus project to identify and convert potential HAL-impl candidates
* Foundational crates push to 1.0
    * jamesmunns to open a tracking issue
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/383
    * Discuss next week 

## Last Week's Action Items

* None this week!

