# Embedded Working Group Meeting Notes

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's meeting: 2019-11-05

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#rust-embedded:matrix.org

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* jamesmunns
* korken89
* japaric
* therealprof
* adamgreig
* cr1901

## Reminders

* Conferences
    * RustFest
    * Meeting Embedded

## Agenda

* From last week:
    * Foundational crates push to 1.0
        * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/383
        * cortex-m
            * Still has unsound mutex
                * Issue #?
        * svd2rust - still in flux
        * Major version support policy?
            * Only current major?
            * Current and previous major (debian style)?
        * Homework: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2803
        * RFC: Official support policy (at least for >= 1.0.0)?
        * Make tracking issue(s) for crate stabilization?
    * Mutex Trait (@korken89)
        * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/377
            * No consensus about associated type, slight preference of `Data`
            * Reference impl: https://github.com/korken89/core-mutex/blob/master/src/lib.rs
* Didn't get to this week
    * Randomizing symbol names vs. reproducible builds (@jschievink):
        * https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-rt/pull/205
            * Waiting for @jschievink to implement the trampoline approach
            * Meeting participants in favour of getting rid of the randomizing hack
    * PSA from @japaric, new PR to fix Mutex impl: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/388

## Action Items

* [ ] @therealprof write an RFC for changing the embedded-hal trait inclusion mechanics
* [ ] Read https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2803
* [ ] Add notes re: stabilization to the tracking issue
* [ ] @jamesmunns: Go release the newsletter


# Last Week's Agenda

* Last Week's Actions
    * No news regarding focus projects, try again next week
* Should we have a reference HAL implementation (see https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/issues/156)
    * Discussion is split whether it's useful to have just an abstract HAL impl (for qemu use) or a real hardware one
* What to do with the TriState PR - shall we just merge it? (https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/pull/157)
    * No opinions voiced
* Who's going to RustFest Barcelona?
    * @therealprof
* Who's going to Meeting Embedded?
    * @thejpster is doing a talk about the nRF9160
* Any other upcoming events?
    * [FOSDEM 2020](https://fosdem.org/2020/) 1&2 Feb Brussels - free to attend ~8000 attendees(!) [CfPs](https://fosdem.org/2020/news/2019-10-01-accepted-developer-rooms/) are open until ~mid Nov (close date depends on room). Possible rooms of interest include:
        * Rust (double number of slots vs. previous years)
        * Embedded, Mobile and Automotive
        * IoT
        * LLVM
        * RiscV
* Docs improvement suggestions by @nickray:
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/docs/issues/18
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/docs/issues/19
    * <crickets/>
* Randomizing symbol names vs. reproducible builds (@jschievink):
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-rt/pull/205
        * Waiting for @jschievink to implement the trampoline approach
        * Meeting participants in favour of getting rid of the randomizing hack
* PSA from @japaric, new PR to fix Mutex impl: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/388

## To be put on ~~next~~ this weeks agenda

* Foundational crates push to 1.0
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/383
* Mutex Trait (@korken89)
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/377

## Last Week's Action Items

* [ ] @therealprof write an RFC for changing the embedded-hal trait inclusion mechanics
