# Embedded Working Group Meeting Notes

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's meeting: 2019-12-17

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#rust-embedded:matrix.org
[Meeting Agenda]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/406

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* therealprof
* adamgreig
* jschievink
* japaric
* disasm

## Reminders

* Nice new blog article from @jamesmunns: https://interrupt.memfault.com/blog/zero-to-main-rust-1
* There's now a rust retro group #RustRetro:matrix.org

# Agenda

* digital v3 (https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/393)
* re-org embedded-hal rfc (https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/pull/169)
    * Still need to figure out what to do about / whether to do versioning via module name
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/409
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/issues/163
* generic radio traits
    * Prior art: https://github.com/chris-zen/mdp-link-rs/tree/master/nrf52-radio
    * Group has no idea what to discuss about here
    * Should have a proposal to discuss for possible adoption in embedded-hal trait
* Inline ASM project group: https://github.com/rust-lang/project-inline-asm
* Meeting schedule over next two weeks (xmas/NYE)
    * Skip next two meetings due to holidays. Enjoy the days and we'll meet again in the new year on the 7th!

## Action Items

* [ ] @jamesmunns do a PoC on personal github space to test book monorepo
    * Feel free to ping if anyone else wants to implement
* [ ] Looking for volunteers to fix CI issues, either:
    * [ ] Apply the workaround
    * [ ] Fix Rustbuild
* [ ] cortex-m-rt PR to change the trampoline behavior
* [ ] Minor changes then merge vscode support PR
* [ ] @therealprof Set up https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/393 for voting
* [ ] @therealprof Move https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/issues/163 into a proper WG RFC

## Last Week's Agenda

* book monorepo proposal - ghost/jamesmunns
* CI testing is a no-op
    * https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/67018
    * Possible workaround that could be useful: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/aecb51149dbe2f3e8745c646ebfdc992624188cf/src/test/run-make/removing-code-and-incremental-lto/Makefile#L7-L11
    * Fixing rustbuild would be better
* cortex-m-rt regression
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-rt/issues/223
    * japaric: "IMO, the function with the user code should be #[inline(always)] and all the attributes should be put on the exception handler (e.g. SysTick). Use of (the unstable) #[naked] should tell you to use (stable) external assembly"
* VS_Code Support
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-quickstart/pull/78

## Last Week's Action Items

* None this week!

