# Embedded WG

- [Coordination repository](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg)
- [Milestone issues](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Arust-embedded++is%3Aopen+milestone%3A2018&type=Issues)
- Meetings: Tuesdays 8 PM Europe/Berlin time - #rust-embedded @ irc.mozilla.org
# Attendance

**Write your GH username or IRC handle here!**

- japaric
- adamgreig
- hannobraun
- korken89
- therealprof
- jamesmunns

# Agenda

## Announcements & reminders
- PRs waiting for review: https://github.com/search?q=org%3Arust-embedded+is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3As-waiting-on-review
- Online discussions
  - [Form a libs team?](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/266)
  - [Prioritise 2019 wishlist items for rust-lang](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/269)
  - [Cortex-A Team: Decide on 2019 objectives](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/270)
  - [Cortex-M Team: Decide on 2019 objectives](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/271)
  - [Cortex-R Team: Decide on 2019 objectives](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/272)
  - [Embedded Linux Team: Decide on 2019 objectives](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/273)
  - [HAL Team: Decide on 2019 objectives](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/274)
  - [MSP430 Team: Decide on 2019 objectives](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/275)
  - [RISC-V Team: Decide on 2019 objectives](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/276)
  - [Resources Team: Decide on 2019 objectives](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/277)
  - [Tools Team: Decide on 2019 objectives](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/278)


- Check the status of the 2019 planning issues

prioritize rust requests during next meeting

japaric: ask teams to schedule some (meeting) time to discuss their roadmaps in real time

- Should we check style with stable rustfmt in Travis? @korken89

No strong -1 / mild +1 to the idea

korken89 will create an issue / RFC to iron out the details -- see https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/289

- Go through rust-lang/rust requests in the next meeting? https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/269#issuecomment-448349195

See (1)

- Update crate author information to say e.g. `"The Cortex-M team <cortex-m@teams.rust-embedded.org>"`?

We’ll add the team e-mail address as first author to each crate under the org

japaric will send e-mails to the teams’ email addresses asking teams to update the author information
in the future, we’ll consider keeping a list of contributors in the crate source code (e.g. CONTRIBUTORS.md generated from .git)

- [rust-embedded/cortex-m-rt#139](https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-rt/issues/139) @korken89

korken89 will draft a bug report in the linked issue. We'll check it during the next meeting

- jamesmunns: Help with the newsletter
- jamesmunns: Free form discussions?
