# Embedded Working Group Meeting Notes

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's meeting: 2019-10-22

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#rust-embedded:matrix.org

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* jamesmunns
* therealprof
* adamgreig
* theJPster
* japaric
* korken89

## Reminders

None this week!

## Agenda

* Reminders
    * Blog: https://github.com/rust-embedded/blog/blob/master/content/2019-10-31-newsletter-20.md
* Mutex RFC:
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/377
    * Start 1 week FCP now, then merge it
* VolatileCell Soundness
    * References:
        * https://github.com/japaric/volatile-register/issues/10
        * https://github.com/japaric/vcell/issues/10
        * https://github.com/rust-console/voladdress
        * https://github.com/rust-lang/unsafe-code-guidelines/issues/33
        * https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/55005
    * Downsides:
        * Doesn't seem to cause too many issues in the wild yet
        * Could have impact for registers w/ side-effectful reads, like clearing interrupt flag on read bits
    * Possible solutions
        * ptr_read/write - possible perf impacts
        * https://github.com/rust-embedded/svd2rust/issues/213#issuecomment-460003728
    * Research to see if moving to ptr_read/write can be made without breaking changes to ZSTs or crates in general?
* Rust 1.38 issue?
    * https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65391
    * User is redefining `_stext`, which *should* be valid, but perhaps not tested in CI
* Old Linker issue
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/379

## Action Items

* [ ] Add FCP to Ops?
* [ ] @japaric to follow up next week with findings re: VolatileCell replacements.
* [ ] James to follow up with 1.38 linker issue

## Last Week's Agenda

* Info about the Rust All Hands
    * Date and time still not finalized
    * No hard limit but unless discussions are needed should probably limit to 3 WG members
    * Travel grants are a possibility
    * Agenda bashing ticket here: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/381
* Mutex Trait
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/377
    * Discussion still in progress, no korken89 in the meeting to discuss
* Next blog planned for Oct 31
    * Submit additions here: https://github.com/rust-embedded/blog/blob/master/content/2019-10-31-newsletter-20.md
* MSRV guidance
    * Addition to cargo to specify MSRV was just accepted: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2495
    * Tracking issue for implementation: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/65262
    * Could add some guidance to https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/blob/master/ops/msrv.md
    * WG tracking issue: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/382
* Digital::v2 guidance
    * Maybe could be a focus project to identify and convert potential HAL-impl candidates
* Foundational crates push to 1.0
    * jamesmunns to open a tracking issue
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/383
    * Discuss next week

We also had Matrix stability issues :(


## Last Week's Action Items

* None this week!
