# Embedded Working Group Meeting Notes

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's meeting: 2019-11-19

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#rust-embedded:matrix.org

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* jamesmunns
* therealprof
* japaric
* korken89
* disasm
* SEGFAULT
* adamgreig
* thejpster
* nickray

## Reminders

* Blog Post
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/blog/blob/master/content/2019-11-28-newsletter-21.md

## This Week's Agenda

* Mutex Trait (@korken89)
        * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/377
            * Reference impl: https://github.com/korken89/core-mutex/blob/master/src/lib.rs
            * After discussion: let's merge the RFC
* Randomizing symbol names vs. reproducible builds (@jschievink):
        * https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-rt/pull/205
            * Waiting for @jschievink to implement the trampoline approach
            * Meeting participants in favour of getting rid of the randomizing hack
            * Still no update on this matter
* digital::v3 RFC (@Disasm)
        * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/393
        * Join the discussion in the RFC
* Changing the way embedded-hal receives cool stuff: https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/issues/163
    * Meeting participants in favour proposal, potentially to go in trinity with digital::v3 and to-be-written proposal about splitting up embedded-hal into subcrates
* Monolithic book(s)? (@jamesmunns)

* Didn't get to this week:
    * CONTROL::FPCA register - add reset method to cortex-m? (See https://static.docs.arm.com/ddi0403/eb/DDI0403E_B_armv7m_arm.pdf page 575)
        * Shouldn't require much discussion, can be added with a PR to cortex-m

## This Week's Action Items

* [ ] @thejpster to write an RFC about splitting up embedded-hal into seperately versioned subcrates
* [ ] @jamesmunns to write a proposal about a monorepo for books

## Last Week's Agenda

* From last week:
    * Foundational crates push to 1.0
        * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/383
        * cortex-m
            * Still has unsound mutex
                * Issue #?
        * svd2rust - still in flux
        * Major version support policy?
            * Only current major?
            * Current and previous major (debian style)?
        * Homework: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2803
        * RFC: Official support policy (at least for >= 1.0.0)?
        * Make tracking issue(s) for crate stabilization?
    * Infra team is asking whether we would like to use Rust infrastructure more and are willing to have their bot have full access to embedded WG repositories, giving us:
        * Proper team membership handling including sub-teams
        * Automatic permission handling for all bots and repositories
        * Sub-team displays on the Rust Governance page
        * Access to all current and new bots they run, cf. https://github.com/rust-lang/team
    * PSA from adamgreig: stm32-rs 0.9 was released ðŸŽ‰



## Last Week's Action Items
* [ ] Read https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2803
* [ ] Add notes re: stabilization to the tracking issue

## List from last week

* [`cortex-m`](https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m)
    * Why: Foundational to majority of supported MCUs
    * Blockers:
        * MMIO/Register reference soundness?
        * Possibly need to use `svd2rust` for peripherals?
* [`cortex-m-rt`](https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-rt)
    * Why: Foundational to majority of supported MCUs
    * Blockers: Review pending RFCs/PRs for potential breaking changes
        * ramfuncs, more user defined memory segments
* [`aligned`](https://github.com/japaric/aligned)
    * Why: `cortex-m` depends on it
    * Blockers:
* [`as-slice`](https://github.com/japaric/as-slice)
    * Why: `aligned` depends on it
    * Blockers:
* [`generic-array`](https://github.com/fizyk20/generic-array)
    * Why:
        * Used for generic numeric types until const generics lands
        * Still a number of issues to address for [const generics](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/labels/A-const-generics) as of today
    * Blockers:
* [`bare-metal`](https://github.com/japaric/bare-metal)
    * Why: Foundational to pretty much every MCU application written in Rust
    * Blockers: Not in WG hand, depends on @japaric / @korken89
* [`vcell`](https://github.com/japaric/vcell)
    * Why: `svd2rust`-generated crates and `cortex-m` depend on it
    * Blockers:
* [`volatile-register`](https://github.com/japaric/vcell)
    * Why:
        * Primary abstraction for MMIO
    * Blockers:
        * potential MMIO soundness issues (spurious reads)
* [`panic-halt`](https://github.com/korken89/panic-halt)
    * Why: This has become one of the primary panic implementations, which is necessary for a `#![no_std]`application
    * Blockers:
        * Probably none, @korken89 is interested in making it happen
* [`embedded-hal`](https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal)
    * Why: Foundational for applications using common peripherals
    * Blockers:
        * Many open issues, lots of peripherals still missing
        * `digital::v1` vs. `digital::v2` kerfuffle
        * Lots of traits are `unproven`
* [`svd2rust`](https://github.com/japaric/vcell)
    * Why: Main tool to generate register interfaces for MCUs
    * Blockers: More optimisation to make created code sound and viable for production, still very slow and bloaty
* [`heapless`](https://github.com/japaric/heapless)
    * Why: Some things are some much nicer if they can use dynamic memory
    * Blockers: Not in WG hand, depends on @japaric / @korken89

### Crates we need

* `panic-reset`
* Some kind of basic stable allocator?
    * `alloc-cortex-m` still unstable, blocked on https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/51540
* `async`/`await` support and a task executor
    * Blocked on: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/62918
