# Embedded Working Group Meeting 2020-07-21

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's date: 2020-07-21
* [Meeting Agenda issue](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/479)

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#rust-embedded:matrix.org

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* adamgreig
* therealprof
* japaric
* eldruin
* thalesfragoso
* posborne

## Agenda/Minutes

Announcements:

* [cortex-m v0.6.3 was released](https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m/releases/tag/v0.6.3)
* [Embedded WG team was updated](https://github.com/rust-lang/team/pull/376)

[Nominated items](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Arust-embedded+label%3Anominated+is%3Aopen&type=Issues)

* https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/482
    * Either talk to Rust core team about trademark, or use Ferris logo
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/481
    * Further discussion to continue on issue for now
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-quickstart/pull/91
    * Perhaps we can re-add the full build script but with a comment at the top explaining why it's not always necessary so users can delete it if appropraite
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/480
    * New issue to discuss stable deref to allow `Vec<T>` etc
    * Location probably best as a separate crate, to discuss on issue
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m/pull/241
    * Remove Into supertrait, add `number(self) -> u16` method
    * Keep copy supertrait
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m/issues/239
    * Please discuss on-issue
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/svd2rust/pull/455
    * Waiting on cortex-m#241, discuss again later
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m/pull/235
    * Associated consts seems like the best route forwards
    * We can add the associated constants now (in 0.6) and remove `ptr()` methods after a deprecation period (in 0.7)
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/alloc-cortex-m/issues/36
    * Please discuss on-issue
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m/pull/209
    * Didn't have time to discuss but perhaps we need to resolve what should go into mutex-trait first
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m/pull/169
    * Didn't have time to discuss


## Action Items


## Last Week's Agenda

* PSAs
    * Embedded-WG reorganisation has happened: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/476
    * adamgreig joined the embedded WG core team (and @jamesmunns stepped down): https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/463
    * Highfive is finally up-to-date: https://github.com/rust-lang/highfive/pull/272
        * Also documented how to keep it up-to-date: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/blob/master/ops/highfive.md

* Focus projects
    * DMA
        * Discussion in rust-lang Zulip around sequencing start/stop operations

* Weekly meeting format: agenda issues or nominated issues or something else?

* Road to 1.0
    * embedded-hal: https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/issues/177
    * cortex-m
        * Division into multiple crates? Move singleton control to cortex-m-rt?
        * https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m/pull/241
        * We discussed various options for a split and what to do about a 1.0 release: for now the conclusion is to start planning what a 1.0 would look like without substantial changes and in parallel we can plan an alternative set of cortex-m crates which implement the split idea.

## Last Week's Action Items

* [x] Finish updating Embedded team list on rust-lang website (https://github.com/rust-lang/team/pull/376)
* [ ] Open issues for new InterruptNumber trait
