# Embedded Working Group Meeting Notes

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's meeting: 2019-01-07

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#rust-embedded:matrix.org
[Meeting Agenda]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/406

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* jamesmunns
* korken89
* jonas-schievink
* therealprof
* japaric
* adamgreig
* thejpster
* cr1901
* nickray

## Reminders

* There's now a rust retro group #RustRetro:matrix.org
* Add your items to [the next newsletter](https://github.com/rust-embedded/blog/edit/master/content/2020-01-30-newsletter-23.md)!

## Agenda

* Goals for 2020?
  * 1.0 release for embedded-hal
      * Still major open items to figure out before it can go 1.0
  * 1.0 release for cortex-m
  * 1.0 release for cortex-m-rt
  * 1.0 release for svd2rust
      * General agreement to start a bottom up approach stabilizing each foundational crate one by one (r0, bare-metal, cortex-m, cortex-m-rt...)
      * Attempt to pace at a 6 weeks schedule
      * Rough release criteria:
          * We can slip for "it's unsound", or "the docs aren't ready"
          * Let's not slip for "I know it could be better"
  * Oxidize 2020 ;)
      * Maaaaaaaybe :D
* Stopping all the good embedded projects sneaking into TWiR instead of our blog!

## Action Items

* [ ] Tell your friends about the WG and the newsletter!
* [ ] James to write a tweet promoting the newsletter, and to have people add their stuff to it

## Last Week's Agenda

* digital v3 (https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/393)
* re-org embedded-hal rfc (https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/pull/169)
    * Still need to figure out what to do about / whether to do versioning via module name
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/409
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/issues/163
* generic radio traits
    * Prior art: https://github.com/chris-zen/mdp-link-rs/tree/master/nrf52-radio
    * Group has no idea what to discuss about here
    * Should have a proposal to discuss for possible adoption in embedded-hal trait
* Inline ASM project group: https://github.com/rust-lang/project-inline-asm
* Meeting schedule over next two weeks (xmas/NYE)
    * Skip next two meetings due to holidays. Enjoy the days and we'll meet again in the new year on the 7th!

## Last Week's Action Items

* [ ] @jamesmunns do a PoC on personal github space to test book monorepo
    * Feel free to ping if anyone else wants to implement
* [ ] Looking for volunteers to fix CI issues, either:
    * [ ] Apply the workaround
    * [ ] Fix Rustbuild
* [ ] cortex-m-rt PR to change the trampoline behavior
* [ ] Minor changes then merge vscode support PR
* [ ] @therealprof Set up https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/393 for voting
* [ ] @therealprof Move https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal/issues/163 into a proper WG RFC

