# Embedded Working Group Meeting Notes

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's meeting: 2020-04-14

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#rust-embedded:matrix.org
[Meeting Agenda]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/444

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* jamesmunns
* adamgreig
* korken89
* therealprof

## Agenda

* Discussion around the project to implement and document a new DMA API for the embedonomicon, write-up so far: [ra-kete/dma-poc](https://github.com/ra-kete/dma-poc/blob/master/README.md)
* New MSRV focus project: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/443
* Discussion about whether to take https://github.com/smoltcp-rs/rust-managed into the EWG


## Action Items

* [ ] @korken89 - add a `## How to help` section to [the DMA project doc](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/blob/master/projects/in-progress/0440-dma-api-documentation.md)
* [ ] @adamgreig - add a how to help section
* [ ] @jamesmunns - add how to help section to the project template

## Last Week's Agenda

* The DMA API proposed in the embedonomicon is unsound: rust-embedded/embedonomicon#64
    * Discuss in issue
    * korken89 is forming a crack squad to investigate
* cortex-m-rt MSRV (rust-embedded/cortex-m-rt#262)
    * Merge adamgreig's PR, 1.39 is looking like a likely MSRV
* The road to 1.0 - progress on crates
    * bare-metal - ship it and sink it

## Last Week's Action Items

* [ ] Focus Project - @korken89 for DMA
* [ ] Focus Project - @adamgreig for MSRV CI builds
