# Embedded Working Group Meeting Notes

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's meeting: 2020-05-19

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#rust-embedded:matrix.org
[Meeting Agenda]: #

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* jamesmunns
* therealprof
* adamgreig
* jschievink
* japaric
* cr1901
* korken89
* eldruin


## Agenda

* Focus Project check-in
* A Github Actions interlude
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/454
    * Cargo bloat action!
* hibernating thejpster
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/455
* Road to 1.0
    * bare-metal:
        * Rough idea: Release current state as 1.0 and deprecate it afterwards paving the way for independent architecture crates to move away from current `Mutex`
        * Issue with new `Mutex` trait: https://github.com/rust-embedded/mutex-trait/issues/12
        * Possible idea for next focus group?

## Action Items

*

## Last Week's Agenda

* Focus Project checkin
    * DMA: Impl's wanted! See https://github.com/ra-kete/dma-poc/issues/1
        * Example impl here: https://github.com/stm32-rs/stm32f3xx-hal/pull/86
        * nRF impl available but needs updating
    * MSRV: Getting close! Another couple PRs
        * https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/445
* Road to 1.0
    * bare-metal:
        * Rough idea: Release current state as 1.0 and deprecate it afterwards paving the way for independent architecture crates to move away from current `Mutex`
        * Issue with new `Mutex` trait: https://github.com/rust-embedded/mutex-trait/issues/12
        * Possible idea for next focus group?

## Last Week's Action Items

* [ ] @adamgreig to create RFC for bare-metal decision
