# Embedded Working Group Meeting Notes

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's meeting: 2020-03-17

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#rust-embedded:matrix.org
[Meeting Agenda]: #

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* jamesmunns
* jschievink
* cr1901
* lenary
* strom-und-spiele
* adamgreig
* korken89
* therealprof
* sh3rm4n
* thejpster
* ryankurte
* japaric

## Reminders

* Next Newsletter!
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/blog/edit/master/content/2020-02-29-newsletter-24.md

## Agenda

* Open items
    * Libs/Community Team - Help Wanted
    * embedded-hal finalize roadmap
* Frame Pointers / Unwind Tables / Backtraces (RISC-V: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/69890)
  * Default setting for frame pointers, uwtables and backtraces (in light of https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/69890)
  * This change only applies to RISC-V
  * We're good (as long as the change is verified to still give good backtraces)
* Do we want to `#[cfg]`-gate fields of `cortex_m::Peripherals`? It has some drawbacks: https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m/pull/181#issuecomment-568524422
    * Kick discussion to the issue for now
    * Should be discussed pre-1.0
* Plans for AVR support once merged to rust-lang/rust?
* embedded-hal 1.0 branch

## Action Item

* [ ] ?

## Last Week's Agenda

* https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/343
    * should we have a bunch of useful embedded crates in the rust-embedded org vs their own org

## Last Week's Action Items


- [ ] Modify the community/libs team pre-RFC to have the "two teams", "no stability guarantees, but team support" for the libs/community team, make it a real RFC, start pushing it through
    - TODO: James rewrite
- [ ] Schedule a meeting for a larger discussion about refactoring the teams, maybe suggest some folks move to "alumni" status (or part of the community team?) if they are not currently active
    - TODO: James make a coordination issue
- [ ] Revise the docs to have a more concrete path to joining/contributing
    - TODO: Follow up after above item
- [ ] Embedded Hal Roadmap
    - WIP: https://hackmd.io/YSBnMLngSs6b-vozCHMYjA

